(Agentic Chat) Deep Cody docs (#841)
sourcegraph/docs: docs/cody/capabilities/agentic-chat.mdx

# Agentic Chat

> <p className="subtitle"> Learn about the Agentic Chat experience, an exclusive chat-based AI agent with enhanced capabilities.</p>

Reviewer: "agentic chat" is not a proper noun from a marketing POV, let's update this in the rest of the doc @MaedahBatool

<Callout type="info">Agentic Chat is currently in the Experimental stage for Cody Pro and Enterprise and is supported only on VS Code, Visual Studio, JetBrains editor extensions, and Web. Usage may be limited at this stage.</Callout>

Cody's Agentic Chat experience is an AI agent that can evaluate context and fetch any additional context by providing enhanced, context-aware chat capabilities. It extends Cody's functionality by proactively understanding your coding environment and gathering relevant information based on your requests before responding. These features help you get noticeably higher-quality responses.

> This Agentic Chat experience aims to reduce the learning curve associated with traditional coding assistants by minimizing users' need to provide context manually. It achieves this through agentic context retrieval, where the AI autonomously gathers and analyzes context before generating a response.

Reviewer: It also helps retrieve context from other tools such as terminal, OpenCtx, etc dynamically as needed to better answer the query

## Capabilities of Agentic Chat

The Agentic Chat experience leverages several key capabilities, including:

- **Proactive context gathering**: Automatically gathers relevant context from your codebase, project structure, and current task

> - **Agentic context review**: Reviews the gathered context to ensure it is comprehensive and relevant to your query

Reviewer: Let's use "reflection" - review is an overloaded word

- **Iterative context improvement**: Performs multiple review loops to refine the context and ensure a thorough understanding
- **Enhanced response accuracy**: Leverages comprehensive context to provide more accurate and relevant responses, reducing the risk of hallucinations

## Enable Agentic Chat

> Pro users can enable the Agentic Chat experience from the green **funnel** icon in Cody's chat panel. You can toggle the **Agentic Chat** feature on and off. Enterprise customers are required to opt-in to get access to this Agentic Chat feature.

Reviewer: Heads up - @beyang proposed a new UX for the agentic chat that is changing this experience, so we will have to update these instructions/images

![Agentic chat interface](IMAGE LINK TO BE ADDED)

### Getting Agentic Chat access for Enterprise customers

> Enterprise customers can get access by upgrading their supported client (VS Code, JetBrains, and Visual Studio) to the latest version of the plugin and enabling the following feature flags on their Sourcegraph Instance:

Reviewer: Currently they also need Haiku 3.5 available for their instance

- **Trusted workspaces only**: Commands can only be executed within trusted workspaces with a valid shell
- **Potential data sharing**: Any terminal-accessible information may be shared with the LLM

Commands are generated by the agent/LLM based on your request. Avoid asking it to execute destructive commands.

### Configure shell command execution

You can configure shell command execution via the `cody.agentic.context` setting in your editor:

#### Enable Agentic Chat access to CLI

Update the `cody.agentic.context` setting to `allow` or `block` specific commands:

```json
{
  "cody.agentic.context": {
    "shell": {
  // Array of allowed command prefixes, or ["*"] for all commands
      "allow": ["git", "gh", "ls"],
      "block": ["git"] // Additional commands to block
    }
  }
}
```

#### Disable Agentic Chat access to CLI

To disable the feature, navigate to your user settings and set `cody.agentic.context` to an empty value. When disabled, the chat agent cannot access the CLI.

## Use cases

Agentic Chat can be helpful to assist you with a wide range of tasks, including:

> - **Improved response quality**: Helps you get better and more accurate responses than other LLMs, making the additional processing time for context gathering a non-issue

Reviewer: Did you mean "making up for" ? Little confused by the second half of the sentence

Author: Yes this

- **Error resolution**: It can automatically identify error sources and suggest fixes by analyzing error logs
- **Better unit tests**: Automatically includes imports and other missing contexts to generate better unit tests

## Known limitations

### Enterprise deployments

> Cody Gateway customers are required to have Claude 3.5 Haiku enabled (this requires Sourcegraph v5.9 and new [model configuration](/cody/enterprise/model-configuration)). BYOK customers will use the selected models, but the quality may vary.

Reviewer: It's worth putting a disclaimer - "Currently, agentic chat uses Claude 3.5 Haiku for the reflection steps as it provides a good balance between quality and latency. The Enterprise instance must have access to Claude 3.5 Haiku to use agentic chat ..... "

# Agentic Chat

<p className="subtitle"> Learn about the Agentic Chat experience, an exclusive chat-based AI agent with enhanced capabilities.</p>

> <Callout type="info">Agentic Chat is currently in the Experimental stage for Cody Pro and Enterprise and is supported only on VS Code, JetBrains editor extensions, and Web.</Callout>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info">Agentic Chat is currently in the Experimental stage for Cody Pro and Enterprise and is supported only on VS Code, JetBrains editor extensions, and Web. Usage may be limited at this stage.</Callout>
```

Need a better wording there but we should call out that we may enforce limits on usage (and subject to change).

- **Enhanced response accuracy**: Leverages comprehensive context to provide more accurate and relevant responses, reducing the risk of hallucinations

## Enable Agentic Chat

Pro users can enable the Agentic Chat experience from the green **funnel** icon in Cody's chat panel. You can toggle the **Agentic Chat** feature on and off. Enterprise customers are required to opt-in to get access to this Agentic Chat feature.

![Agentic chat interface](IMAGE LINK TO BE ADDED)

### Getting Agentic Chat access for Enterprise customers

Enterprise customers can get access by upgrading their client (VS Code or JetBrains) to the latest version of the plugin and enabling the following feature flags on their Sourcegraph Instance:

- `deep-cody` to get access to the feature
- `deep-cody-shell-context` to allow [terminal access](#terminal-commands)
- Users will also need to manually enable access to the terminal commands on the client's `settings.json` file i.e., set `"cody.agentic.context.experimentalShell": true`

## What can Agentic Chat do?

Agentic Chat can help you with the following:

### Tool Usage

It has access to a suite of tools for retrieving relevant context. These tools include:

> - **Search Tool**: Searches the codebase using keywords extracted from your query
> - **File Tool**: Retrieves the content of specific files in your codebase
> - **CLI Tool**: Executes terminal commands to gather system or project-specific information
> - **Memory Tool**: Allows the agent to create personal notes that can be used across chat sessions
> - **Web Browser Tool (via OpenCtx)**: Searches the web for live context
> - **Linear Issue Tool (via OpenCtx)**: Integrates with Linear issue tracking when the provider is configured

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Code Search**: Performs code searches
- **Codebase File**: Retrieves the full content from a file in your codebase
- **Terminal**: Executes shell commands in your terminal
- **Chat Memory**: Allows the agent to create personal notes that can be used across chat sessions
- **Web Browser*: Searches the web for live context
- **OpenCtx**: Any OpenCtx providers could be used by the agent
```

It integrates seamlessly with external services, such as web content retrieval and issue tracking systems, using OpenCtx providers. To learn more, [read the OpenCtx docs](/cody/capabilities/openctx).

Memory allows the Agentic Chat to learn and remember your preferences, enabling a more personalized experience. You can ask it to **remember** specific details for future interactions.

> <Callout type="info">Tool calling is not supported on the Web. It only works with VS Code and JetBrains editor extensions.</Callout>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info">Terminal access is not supported on the Web. It currently only works with VS Code and JetBrains editor extensions.</Callout>
```

> ## Terminal commands

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Terminal access
```

> Agentic Chat can use the CLI Tool to execute shell commands and gather context from your terminal. Its ability to execute terminal commands enhances its context-gathering capabilities. However, it’s essential to understand that any information accessible via your terminal could potentially be shared with the LLM. It's recommended not to request information that you don't want to share. Here's what you should consider:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure Agentic Chat to execute shell commands and gather context from your terminal. Its ability to execute terminal commands enhances its context-gathering capabilities. However, it’s essential to understand that any information accessible via your terminal could potentially be shared with the LLM. It's recommended not to request information that you don't want to share. Here's what you should consider:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Agentic Chat can use the CLI Tool to request execution of shell commands in order to gather context from your terminal. Its ability to execute terminal commands enhances its context-gathering capabilities. However, it’s essential to understand that any information accessible via your terminal could potentially be shared with the LLM. It's recommended not to request information that you don't want to share. Here's what you should consider:
```

(Mainly want to make it clear, we will always ask permission before executing a command)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* - **Requires user consent**: Agentic Chat will pause and ask for permission each time before executing any shell command.
```

- **Trusted workspaces only**: Commands can only be executed within trusted workspaces with a valid shell
- **Potential data sharing**: Any terminal-accessible information may be shared with the LLM

> - **Allow list configuration**: This feature is disabled if the allow list is empty. By default, the allow list is set to ['*'], which allows all commands. For enhanced security, use specific command prefixes instead of the wildcard *.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Since this is not tested, i'd suggest against mentioning it until it's ready.

Reviewer 2: +1 let's remove this line

> Commands are generated by the agent/LLM based on your request. Avoid asking it to execute destructive commands if you do not want them to run.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Commands are generated by the agent/LLM based on your request. Avoid asking it to execute destructive commands.
```

### Configure shell command execution

> You can configure shell command execution via the `cody.agentic.context` setting in your editor:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure terminal access in the chat UI, under the agentic context settings.
```

<img width="664" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d53e82c-50d1-46ab-a9f5-919f8953995b" />

Author: @abeatrix where will this option live with the new UI?

### Enable Agentic Chat access to CLI

> Update the `cody.agentic.context` setting to `allow` or `block` specific commands:

Author: @graceshih-sg I need to double-check this section with you. Is it factually correct?

Reviewer 2: Let's leave out the allowlist/blocklist -- we decided to not expose it at launch.

Reviewer: +1 ^

```json
{
  "cody.agentic.context": {
    "shell": {
  // Array of allowed command prefixes, or ["*"] for all commands
      "allow": ["git", "gh", "ls"],
      "block": ["git"] // Additional commands to block
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this block -- does that sound okay @abeatrix?

> #### Enable Agentic Chat access to CLI
> 
> Update the `cody.agentic.context` setting to `allow` or `block` specific commands:
> 
> ```json
> {
>   "cody.agentic.context": {
>     "shell": {
>   // Array of allowed command prefixes, or ["*"] for all commands
>       "allow": ["git", "gh", "ls"],
>       "block": ["git"] // Additional commands to block
>     }
>   }
> }
> ```
> 
> #### Disable Agentic Chat access to CLI
> 
> To disable the feature, navigate to your user settings and set `cody.agentic.context` to an empty value. When disabled, the chat agent cannot access the CLI.

Reviewer 3: @MaedahBatool  we have moved the settings out of the json file into the UI: 

<img width="664" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dbf45962-802c-4649-8446-1d2fc68c356d" />

```suggestion
```

## Use cases

Agentic Chat can be helpful to assist you with a wide range of tasks, including:

- **Improved response quality**: Helps you get better and more accurate responses than other LLMs, making the additional processing time for context gathering a non-issue
- **Error resolution**: It can automatically identify error sources and suggest fixes by analyzing error logs
- **Better unit tests**: Automatically includes imports and other missing contexts to generate better unit tests

## Known limitations

### Enterprise deployments

Cody Gateway customers are required to have Claude 3.5 Haiku enabled (this requires Sourcegraph v5.9 and new [model configuration](/cody/enterprise/model-configuration)). BYOK customers will use the selected models, but the quality may vary.

### Security concerns

> As mentioned above, Agentic Chat's ability to execute terminal commands enhances its context-gathering capabilities. However, it’s essential to understand that any information accessible via your terminal could be shared with the LLM.

Reviewer 3: We should mention how they can disable this feature by setting `agentic-chat-cli-tool-experimental`  to false

Reviewer: +1

Additionally, enterprise users need to upgrade their supported client (VS Code, JetBrains, and Visual Studio) to the latest version of the plugin by enabling the following feature flags on their Sourcegraph Instance:

- `agentic-chat-experimental` to get access to the feature
- `agentic-chat-cli-tool-experimental` to allow [terminal access](#terminal-commands)

## What can agentic chat do?

Agentic chat can help you with the following:

### Tool Usage

It has access to a suite of tools for retrieving relevant context. These tools include:

- **Code Search**: Performs code searches
- **Codebase File**: Retrieves the full content from a file in your codebase
- **Terminal**: Executes shell commands in your terminal
- **Web Browser*: Searches the web for live context
- **OpenCtx**: Any OpenCtx providers could be used by the agent

It integrates seamlessly with external services, such as web content retrieval and issue tracking systems, using OpenCtx providers. To learn more, [read the OpenCtx docs](/cody/capabilities/openctx).

> Memory allows the agentic chat to learn and remember your preferences, enabling a more personalized experience. You can ask it to **remember** specific details for future interactions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> <Callout type="info">Terminal access is not supported on the Web. It currently only works with VS Code and JetBrains editor extensions.</Callout>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info">Terminal access is not supported on the Web. It currently only works with VS Code, JetBrains, and Visual Studio editor extensions.</Callout>
```

![agentic chat interface](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/Docs/agenti%20-chat.jpg)

### Getting agentic chat access for Enterprise customers

Currently, agentic chat uses Claude 3.5 Haiku for the reflection steps and Claude 3.5 Sonnet for the final response to provide a good balance between quality and latency. Your enterprise instance must have access to both Claude 3.5 Sonnet and Claude 3.5 Haiku to use agentic chat.

Additionally, enterprise users need to upgrade their supported client (VS Code, JetBrains, and Visual Studio) to the latest version of the plugin by enabling the following feature flags on their Sourcegraph Instance:

- `agentic-chat-experimental` to get access to the feature
- `agentic-chat-cli-tool-experimental` to allow [terminal access](#terminal-commands)

## What can agentic chat do?

Agentic chat can help you with the following:

### Tool Usage

It has access to a suite of tools for retrieving relevant context. These tools include:

- **Code Search**: Performs code searches
- **Codebase File**: Retrieves the full content from a file in your codebase
- **Terminal**: Executes shell commands in your terminal

> - **Chat Memory**: Allows the agent to create personal notes that can be used across chat sessions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Let's not include Chat Memory as tool for now as it is still in rough shape and we have just identified a bug with it.

## Capabilities of agentic chat

The agentic chat experience leverages several key capabilities, including:

- **Proactive context gathering**: Automatically gathers relevant context from your codebase, project structure, and current task
- **Agentic context reflection**: Review the gathered context to ensure it is comprehensive and relevant to your query
- **Iterative context improvement**: Performs multiple review loops to refine the context and ensure a thorough understanding
- **Enhanced response accuracy**: Leverages comprehensive context to provide more accurate and relevant responses, reducing the risk of hallucinations

## Enable agentic chat

Pro users can find the agentic chat option in the LLM selector drop-down. Enterprise customers must opt-in to access this agentic chat feature.

![agentic chat interface](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/Docs/agenti%20-chat.jpg)

### Getting agentic chat access for Enterprise customers

> Currently, agentic chat uses Claude 3.5 Haiku for the reflection steps and Claude 3.5 Sonnet for the final response to provide a good balance between quality and latency. Your enterprise instance must have access to both Claude 3.5 Sonnet and Claude 3.5 Haiku to use agentic chat.

Reviewer: It's a double-edged sword. We need to explicitly state the models for customers to make sure they have it enabled, but I concede that this makes it harder to change the models later.

How about a slight tweak @graceshih-sg :
For the experimental release, agentic chat is specifically limited to using Claude 3.5 Haiku for the reflection steps and Claude 3.5 Sonnet for the final response to provide a good balance between quality and latency. Therefore, your enterprise instance must have access to both Claude 3.5 Sonnet and Claude 3.5 Haiku to use agentic chat. These models may be changed during the experimental phase to optimize for quality and/or latency.

> Currently, agentic chat uses Claude 3.5 Haiku for the reflection steps and Claude 3.5 Sonnet for the final response to provide a good balance between quality and latency. Your enterprise instance must have access to both Claude 3.5 Sonnet and Claude 3.5 Haiku to use agentic chat.

Author: I like this direction. I'll add this version.

Additionally, enterprise customers need to upgrade their supported client (VS Code, JetBrains, and Visual Studio) to the latest version of the plugin by enabling the following feature flags on their Sourcegraph Instance:

- `agentic-chat-experimental` to get access to the feature

> - `agentic-chat-cli-tool-experimental` to allow [terminal access](#terminal-commands)

Reviewer: Yup - let's go ahead for Enterprises. Any specific objections @graceshih-sg ?

> - `agentic-chat-cli-tool-experimental` to allow [terminal access](#terminal-commands)

Reviewer 2: Mostly just the feature set between PLG and enterprises -- keeping it as close as possible is preferable. So offering additional flags just for enterprises, want to make sure we're okay supporting that. But I'm fine if this is experimental and we may change how all of this works later anyway.

> - `agentic-chat-cli-tool-experimental` to allow [terminal access](#terminal-commands)

Reviewer: Ah the feature flags are the same for both offerings, we are just turning them on for PLG vs asking customers to turn it on for Enterprise

## Capabilities of agentic chat

The agentic chat experience leverages several key capabilities, including:

- **Proactive context gathering**: Automatically gathers relevant context from your codebase, project structure, and current task
- **Agentic context reflection**: Review the gathered context to ensure it is comprehensive and relevant to your query
- **Iterative context improvement**: Performs multiple review loops to refine the context and ensure a thorough understanding
- **Enhanced response accuracy**: Leverages comprehensive context to provide more accurate and relevant responses, reducing the risk of hallucinations

## Enable agentic chat

Pro users can find the agentic chat option in the LLM selector drop-down. Enterprise customers must opt-in to access this agentic chat feature.

![agentic chat interface](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/Docs/agenti%20-chat.jpg)

### Getting agentic chat access for Enterprise customers

> Currently, agentic chat uses Claude 3.5 Haiku for the reflection steps as it provides a good balance between quality and latency. Your enterprise instance must have access to Claude 3.5 Haiku to use agentic chat.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Currently, agentic chat uses Claude 3.5 Haiku for the reflection steps and Claude 3.5 Sonnet for the final response to provide a good balance between quality and latency. Your enterprise instance must have access to both Claude 3.5 Sonnet and Claude 3.5 Haiku to use agentic chat.
```

Additionally, enterprise customers need to upgrade their supported client (VS Code, JetBrains, and Visual Studio) to the latest version of the plugin by enabling the following feature flags on their Sourcegraph Instance:

- `agentic-chat-experimental` to get access to the feature
- `agentic-chat-cli-tool-experimental` to allow [terminal access](#terminal-commands)

> - Users will also need to manually enable access to the terminal commands on the client's `settings.json` file i.e., set `"cody.agentic.context.experimentalShell": true`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Since all commands are now required manual approval before it runs, this setting has been removed

- **Requires user consent**: Agentic chat will pause and ask for permission each time before executing any shell command.
- **Trusted workspaces only**: Commands can only be executed within trusted workspaces with a valid shell
- **Potential data sharing**: Any terminal-accessible information may be shared with the LLM

Commands are generated by the agent/LLM based on your request. Avoid asking it to execute destructive commands.

## Use cases

Agentic chat can be helpful to assist you with a wide range of tasks, including:

- **Improved response quality**: Helps you get better and more accurate responses than other LLMs, making up for the additional processing time for context gathering a non-issue
- **Error resolution**: It can automatically identify error sources and suggest fixes by analyzing error logs
- **Better unit tests**: Automatically includes imports and other missing contexts to generate better unit tests

## Known limitations

### Enterprise deployments

> Cody Gateway customers are required to have Claude 3.5 Haiku enabled (this requires Sourcegraph v5.9 and new [model configuration](/cody/enterprise/model-configuration)). BYOK customers will use the selected models, but the quality may vary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All customers are required to have Claude 3.5 Sonnet and Claude 3.5 Haiku enabled on their Sourcegraph instance (this requires Sourcegraph v5.9 and new [model configuration](/cody/enterprise/model-configuration)).
```

> ### Security concerns
> 
> As mentioned above, agentic chat's ability to execute terminal commands enhances its context-gathering capabilities. However, it’s essential to understand that any information accessible via your terminal could be shared with the LLM.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

This seems to be duplicated of the Terminal access section above
